In today’s media,
much of what’s presented as fact
is often colored by emotion
and personal opinion.
Jehovah’s Witnesses, however,
remain committed
to defending God’s Word,
the Bible, as the standard for truth.
As Jesus said at John 17:17:
“Your word is truth.”
The wide-ranging subject matter
contained in the publications
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
is painstakingly researched
by their Writing Research Department.
Their research methods are modeled
after that of Bible historians
such as Luke and Jeremiah
—reliance on reputable first-hand sources.
We’re not looking just for someone’s opinions
or what someone believes about a topic.
If the material is socially
or politically biased, for example,
we can’t rely on it.
We look for objective material.
We cover everything
from historical, scientific, geographical
to flora, fauna, space.
So before the script is even written,
we’ll provide a research package,
and we’ll follow
the project until final delivery
to make sure
that everything that is said
and everything that is shown
is solidly based on fact
and is well-researched.
There’s a lot more research than what
the viewer
or the reader will ever see.
You have a one-page article on the otter;
you end up with like 12 references
to back up every statement that’s made.
It seems very simple,
the height of Mont Blanc.
And with the height of Mont Blanc,
we found out, number one,
that it was 4,807 meters;
then we found another source
—4,810 meters;
let’s check a third one
—4,808 meters.
So, what is now real?
In that case, we had to consult
the French National Institute
of Geographic and Forest Information.
One of our main research tools
is our own library system.
We have about 65,000 books
and other research materials.
If we’re researching something
about ancient history
or archaeology,
we may consult
a specialized encyclopedia,
like an encyclopedia
of archaeological discoveries, for example.
Museum websites usually have pictures
of what they have in the museum.
And we can find these visuals and then send
those off to production teams
as well and say,
“This is a good example
of a first-century lamp.”
Things that you think are true
because they are “commonly known”
may not actually be totally accurate.
Quotes need to be verified.
We want to go to the first-hand source,
the original source, for that quote.
That’s one thing.
And secondly, context matters;
we want to quote things properly.
When Gandhi and Lord Irwin came together,
Gandhi said, ‘When your country
and mine come together
‘on the teachings of Christ
and on the Sermon on the Mount,
then we will have solved the problems
of our countries and the world.’
So we researched it.
No one could confirm
that those two men ever met.
So it’s a great quote.
Now, it doesn’t mean
that he didn’t refer to Jesus
or even the Sermon on the Mount,
but that particular one, we couldn’t use.
So the research work we’re doing,
sometimes it takes a lot of time,
a lot of effort.
Sometimes we don’t find
what we are expecting to find.
But it’s very gratifying
because we’re helping produce
accurate information
that our readers can rely on.
Reliable information will help us
make good informed decisions.
Anyone who reads our journals
and who sees our videos
can be confident that this
was thoroughly researched.
These are facts; this is the truth.
So when you consider
the printed publications
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
or peruse the jw.org website,
you can be confident that the material
is carefully researched and accurate.
Why?
Because Jehovah’s Witnesses
are a people who love and respect
the truth.